###Manage /proc file with standard filesystem

We have seen how to read and write a /proc file with the /proc interface. But it's also possible to manage /proc file with inodes. The main concern is to use advanced functions, like permissions.

In Linux, there is a standard mechanism for file system registration. Since every file system has to have its own functions to handle inode and file operations6, there is a special structure to hold pointers to all those functions, struct inode_operations, which includes a pointer to struct file_operations. In /proc, whenever we register a new file, we're allowed to specify which struct inode_operations will be used to access to it. This is the mechanism we use, a struct inode_operations which includes a pointer to a struct file_operations which includes pointers to our procfs_read and procfs_write functions.

Another interesting point here is the module_permission function. This function is called whenever a process tries to do something with the /proc file, and it can decide whether to allow access or not. Right now it is only based on the operation and the uid of the current user (as available in current, a pointer to a structure which includes information on the currently running process), but it could be based on anything we like, such as what other processes are doing with the same file, the time of day, or the last input we received.

It's important to note that the standard roles of read and write are reversed in the kernel. Read functions are used for output, whereas write functions are used for input. The reason for that is that read and write refer to the user's point of view — if a process reads something from the kernel, then the kernel needs to output it, and if a process writes something to the kernel, then the kernel receives it as input.
